SUGUNA was founded in 1990 by William Lew, Warwick Harvey-Smith and
Clifford Kwan-Gett who contacted their classmates that they knew to be
in North America. In addition they placed an advertisement in the
*Gazette* and obtained a listing of Sydney University graduates in the
U.S.A. and Canada. The first meeting was held in 1991 in Sun River,
Oregon.  

Three-day Annual Conferences were run from 1991-2017, held in
different US locations and were a mainstay of the organization for
most of the 1990s and into the 2000s and early 2010s.  The Conferences
comprised lectures on a range of topics in the arts, sciences,
business and beyond, as well as sporting events, and social functions.

During this time SUGUNA also developed several awards. The SUGUNA Jim
Wolfensohn Award consists of a sterling silver plate donated by the
late Jim Wolfensohn, a prominent SUGUNA supporter and former president
of the World Bank, awarded annually to a SUGUNA member in recognition
of academic or other achievements. The Michael Challis Distinguished
Service Award was established in 2012 in recognition of the invaluable
service performed by Michael Challis in his role as Secretary and
Treasurer of SUGUNA (2000-2014). It recognizes individuals for
activities performed in support of SUGUNA, with special emphasis on
leadership roles to advance the work of the organization.

The 2020 coronavirus pandemic was a period of pause for many SUGUNA
activities, as for many organizations. but from 2022 onwards, SUGUNA
has re-organized and has revitalized it's mission and bylaws, with an
increasing focus on regional in-person events and virtual national
events, leading to our first successful virtual Annual General Meeting
in August 2025.
